README.md, before:

# Vehicle Detection
[![Udacity - Self-Driving Car NanoDegree](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/github/shield-carnd.svg)](http://www.udacity.com/drive)


In this project, your goal is to write a software pipeline to detect vehicles in a video (start with the test_video.mp4 and later implement on full project_video.mp4), but the main output or product we want you to create is a detailed writeup of the project.  Check out the [writeup template](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Vehicle-Detection/blob/master/writeup_template.md) for this project and use it as a starting point for creating your own writeup.  

The Project
---

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Perform a Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) feature extraction on a labeled training set of images and train a classifier Linear SVM classifier
* Optionally, you can also apply a color transform and append binned color features, as well as histograms of color, to your HOG feature vector. 
* Note: for those first two steps don't forget to normalize your features and randomize a selection for training and testing.
* Implement a sliding-window technique and use your trained classifier to search for vehicles in images.
* Run your pipeline on a video stream (start with the test_video.mp4 and later implement on full project_video.mp4) and create a heat map of recurring detections frame by frame to reject outliers and follow detected vehicles.
* Estimate a bounding box for vehicles detected.

Here are links to the labeled data for [vehicle](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/Vehicle_Tracking/vehicles.zip) and [non-vehicle](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/Vehicle_Tracking/non-vehicles.zip) examples to train your classifier.  These example images come from a combination of the [GTI vehicle image database](http://www.gti.ssr.upm.es/data/Vehicle_database.html), the [KITTI vision benchmark suite](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/), and examples extracted from the project video itself.   You are welcome and encouraged to take advantage of the recently released [Udacity labeled dataset](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car/tree/master/annotations) to augment your training data.  

Some example images for testing your pipeline on single frames are located in the `test_images` folder.  To help the reviewer examine your work, please save examples of the output from each stage of your pipeline in the folder called `ouput_images`, and include them in your writeup for the project by describing what each image shows.    The video called `project_video.mp4` is the video your pipeline should work well on.  

**As an optional challenge** Once you have a working pipeline for vehicle detection, add in your lane-finding algorithm from the last project to do simultaneous lane-finding and vehicle detection!

**If you're feeling ambitious** (also totally optional though), don't stop there!  We encourage you to go out and take video of your own, and show us how you would implement this project on a new video!

---
### Writeup / README

#### 1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one.  You can submit your writeup as markdown or pdf.  [Here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Vehicle-Detection/blob/master/writeup_template.md) is a template writeup for this project you can use as a guide and a starting point.  

You're reading it!

### Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)

#### 1. Explain how (and identify where in your code) you extracted HOG features from the training images.

The code for this step is contained in the first code cell of the IPython notebook (or in lines # through # of the file called `some_file.py`).  

I started by reading in all the `vehicle` and `non-vehicle` images.  Here is an example of one of each of the `vehicle` and `non-vehicle` classes:

![alt text][image1]

I then explored different color spaces and different `skimage.hog()` parameters (`orientations`, `pixels_per_cell`, and `cells_per_block`).  I grabbed random images from each of the two classes and displayed them to get a feel for what the `skimage.hog()` output looks like.

Here is an example using the `YCrCb` color space and HOG parameters of `orientations=8`, `pixels_per_cell=(8, 8)` and `cells_per_block=(2, 2)`:


![alt text][image2]

#### 2. Explain how you settled on your final choice of HOG parameters.

I tried various combinations of parameters and...

#### 3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you trained a classifier using your selected HOG features (and color features if you used them).

I trained a linear SVM using...

### Sliding Window Search

#### 1. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you implemented a sliding window search.  How did you decide what scales to search and how much to overlap windows?

I decided to search random window positions at random scales all over the image and came up with this (ok just kidding I didn't actually ;):

![alt text][image3]

#### 2. Show some examples of test images to demonstrate how your pipeline is working.  What did you do to optimize the performance of your classifier?

Ultimately I searched on two scales using YCrCb 3-channel HOG features plus spatially binned color and histograms of color in the feature vector, which provided a nice result.  Here are some example images:

![alt text][image4]
---

### Video Implementation

#### 1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (somewhat wobbly or unstable bounding boxes are ok as long as you are identifying the vehicles most of the time with minimal false positives.)
Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video.mp4)


#### 2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you implemented some kind of filter for false positives and some method for combining overlapping bounding boxes.

I recorded the positions of positive detections in each frame of the video.  From the positive detections I created a heatmap and then thresholded that map to identify vehicle positions.  I then used `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` to identify individual blobs in the heatmap.  I then assumed each blob corresponded to a vehicle.  I constructed bounding boxes to cover the area of each blob detected.  

Here's an example result showing the heatmap from a series of frames of video, the result of `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` and the bounding boxes then overlaid on the last frame of video:

### Here are six frames and their corresponding heatmaps:

![alt text][image5]

### Here is the output of `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` on the integrated heatmap from all six frames:
![alt text][image6]

### Here the resulting bounding boxes are drawn onto the last frame in the series:
![alt text][image7]



---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.

Commit message:

wip pipeline working - detections to be tuned

README.md, after:

# Vehicle Detection
[![Udacity - Self-Driving Car NanoDegree](https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-sdc/github/shield-carnd.svg)](http://www.udacity.com/drive)


This project implements a software pipeline to detect vehicles in a video   

The Project
---

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Perform a Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) feature extraction on a labeled training set of images and train a classifier Linear SVM classifier
* Optionally, you can also apply a color transform and append binned color features, as well as histograms of color, to your HOG feature vector. 
* Note: for those first two steps don't forget to normalize your features and randomize a selection for training and testing.
* Implement a sliding-window technique and use your trained classifier to search for vehicles in images.
* Run your pipeline on a video stream (start with the test_video.mp4 and later implement on full project_video.mp4) and create a heat map of recurring detections frame by frame to reject outliers and follow detected vehicles.
* Estimate a bounding box for vehicles detected.

## Prerequisites
In order to run the pipeline to produce the project result video at least python 3.6 is needed 
(since e.g. Python type hints are used in the code - see also https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/).
It will not run with python 2.
You could also use the file [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) to setup a conda environment with all
the required dependencies but having the following python 3 versions of the packages
numpy, opencv, matplotlib, moviepy installed should be sufficient.

## Files
The following files are contained:
- [project result video](project_video_result.mp4)
- [test result video](test_video_result.mp4)
- [jupyter notebook](vehicle_detection.ipynb)
- [the writeup](README.md)

---
### Writeup / README

#### 1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one.  You can submit your writeup as markdown or pdf.  [Here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Vehicle-Detection/blob/master/writeup_template.md) is a template writeup for this project you can use as a guide and a starting point.  

You're reading it!

### Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)

#### 1. Explain how (and identify where in your code) you extracted HOG features from the training images.

The code for this step is contained in the first code cell of the IPython notebook (or in lines # through # of the file called `some_file.py`).  

I started by reading in all the `vehicle` and `non-vehicle` images.  Here is an example of one of each of the `vehicle` and `non-vehicle` classes:

![alt text][image1]

I then explored different color spaces and different `skimage.hog()` parameters (`orientations`, `pixels_per_cell`, and `cells_per_block`).  I grabbed random images from each of the two classes and displayed them to get a feel for what the `skimage.hog()` output looks like.

Here is an example using the `YCrCb` color space and HOG parameters of `orientations=8`, `pixels_per_cell=(8, 8)` and `cells_per_block=(2, 2)`:


![alt text][image2]

#### 2. Explain how you settled on your final choice of HOG parameters.

I tried various combinations of parameters and...

#### 3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you trained a classifier using your selected HOG features (and color features if you used them).

I trained a linear SVM using...

### Sliding Window Search

#### 1. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you implemented a sliding window search.  How did you decide what scales to search and how much to overlap windows?

I decided to search random window positions at random scales all over the image and came up with this (ok just kidding I didn't actually ;):

![alt text][image3]

#### 2. Show some examples of test images to demonstrate how your pipeline is working.  What did you do to optimize the performance of your classifier?

Ultimately I searched on two scales using YCrCb 3-channel HOG features plus spatially binned color and histograms of color in the feature vector, which provided a nice result.  Here are some example images:

![alt text][image4]
---

### Video Implementation

#### 1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (somewhat wobbly or unstable bounding boxes are ok as long as you are identifying the vehicles most of the time with minimal false positives.)
Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video.mp4)


#### 2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you implemented some kind of filter for false positives and some method for combining overlapping bounding boxes.

I recorded the positions of positive detections in each frame of the video.  From the positive detections I created a heatmap and then thresholded that map to identify vehicle positions.  I then used `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` to identify individual blobs in the heatmap.  I then assumed each blob corresponded to a vehicle.  I constructed bounding boxes to cover the area of each blob detected.  

Here's an example result showing the heatmap from a series of frames of video, the result of `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` and the bounding boxes then overlaid on the last frame of video:

### Here are six frames and their corresponding heatmaps:

![alt text][image5]

### Here is the output of `scipy.ndimage.measurements.label()` on the integrated heatmap from all six frames:
![alt text][image6]

### Here the resulting bounding boxes are drawn onto the last frame in the series:
![alt text][image7]



---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.
